# Citi-Bike-Analysis
Citi Bike is the nation's largest bike share program with over 12,000 bikes across 750 stations in New York. The program 
boasts of many benefits to users including affordabiity and convenience. The charts referenced in this summary were compiled 
from a review of the Citi Bike logs from October 2018 to September 2019. Information such as trip length, station locations 
and basic demographic information on users was colllected and analyzed. Twelve separate csv files were merged through a 
python notebook and exported as an excel file which was then transferred into a Tableau notebook. Below is a review of the 
findings for each of the charts. 

In the chart labelled Total Records, we can see that over the duration of a year a total of nearly 400K trips were logged at 
Citi Bike's numerous locations. This amounts to nearly 1,000 bike trips per year. According to the Users Versus Subscriber 
Chart, an overwhelming number of trips have been by regular subscribers over other customers. This suggests that this 
program may benefit from reaching out to a wider audience in order to increase use by tourists or other non-residents. 
Clearly the program has been successful over time with New York residents, however, the company may increase their 
profitability by engaging or targeting non-residents. Both customers and subscribers tend to use the service more frequently 
during summer and fall months, while use seems to decline during winter months. One possibility is that customers would 
prefer other options during colder months. 

The Users by Gender chart indicates that Citi Bike users tend to be male. However, with the affordability and convenience of 
the Citi Bike service, it may be beneficial for the service to attempt to appeal to potential female customers. While the 
bikes do have baskets in front, the necessity of carrying bags or purses for work may be more of a deterrent for women. 
Additionally the bike option may also be more of an invonvenience if wearing dresses, skirts or heels. These are 
considerations that may be taken into account in order for Citi Bike to appeal to a larger audience. 

The popularity of morning hours of 6 and 8 am as well as the evening hours of 5pm and 7pm for both winter and summer months
suggests that the majority of Citi Bike users are using the service to commute to and from work. While use does decline 
during winter use, we see significantly less use during late morning early afternoon times (10am to 2pm) which may indicate
that the delcine of use during winter months is due to a decrease in recreational users. 

The trip duration by birth year suggests that longer trips are often taken by older users, which may be due to older users 
being retired and much more likely to use the service for recreational purposes. There is an upsurge of use by users born 
around the late 90s and early 2000s, however, suggesting that the service appeals to milennials but may have a gap in usage 
by Gen Xers. This makes sense given the milennial preference for eco friendly and community based options an Generation X's
preference for self-reliance and individualism. One exception is individuals born in 1969 who stand out as having the 
highest sum of overall trip duration out of all the birth years listed. Also, individuals born in 1905 appear to be an
outliar with a much higher than average trip duration. 

The Average and Total Trip Duration by User Type chart lists the average and overall trip duration by Customers versus 
Subscribers. This chart tells us that while subscribers are taking much shorter trips, their overall trip duration is 
slightly higher than the customers. However, cusomers may have a higher average trip duration, they are overall not logging
in as many hours on the bike. This may suggest that pricing options for subscribers versus customers may be beneficial for 
the company. For example, a more pay by use policy for the subscribers would be more profitable while a pay by distance type 
plan would be more profitable for customers.

The Comparison of Bike Use Per Station compares overall trip duration with average trip duration and number of bikes per 
station. This is to determine if bikes at certain stations may have more wear and tear than other stations. Grover Street 
Path seems to have the most bikes out of all the stations as well as the highest sum of overall trip duration. However, the
low trip duration average suggests more users taking shorter trips at that station. This may indicate that bikes at this

station may need to cater more towards those using bikes for more functional purposes like commuting to work or running 
short errands. Also, with shorter trips, it may be necessary to have more bikes on hand. In contrast, other stations like
Liberty Light Rail, tends to have a higher average trip duration with a significantly less amount of bikes. They may need
fewer bikes due to lower amounts of customers that take longer trips. THe bikes at Liberty Light Rail may be used for longer
trips or more recreational trips. With a lower number of bikes, this station may need to invest more in the maintanence of 
their equipment. 

Overall Grove St PATH, Hamilton Park and Sip Ave seem to be popular locations for both starting and ending trips. This may 
be due to those locations being near popular tourist attractions, workplaces or shopping areas. The least used start and end
stations appear to be in more specific locations that are not frequented as often. 

The bikes per station map refelcts the trend of more bikes being used in more populated crowded areas where people will need 
to go from point a to point b in a short amount of time. Locations near the harbor are also popular. More out of the way 
stations like JCBS Depot and Union street show less bikes overall. 

While Jackson Square and Union street may be a less likely starting point for trips, their average trip duration is much 
higher than more popular locations like Grove St PATH according to the Duration of Trips by Station map. This indicates that
where a station is in relation to other stations also will influence length of trips and popularity of use.
